In the previous video, we have done configuring
inter vlan routing. Now in this video,
we are going to configure an ip address for all pc
and test communication between
vlans. Let’s just start.
Let’s start from PC 1, this is vlan 10,
so the ip address will be 192.168.10.2,
and the gateway is 192.168.10.1. Remember
that if the pc want to communicate with
others pc in the different network, the pc
will be need a default gateway like this.
Next let’s configure for PC 2. The ip address will
be 192.168.10.3, and the gateway is 192.168.10.1.
Next let’s configure this pc, this is in
vlan 1, so the ip address is 192.168.1.2,
and the gateway is 192.168.1.1, which
is the router address for vlan 1.
Next here, this is vlan 30. The ip address is
192.168.30.2, and the gateway is 192.168.30.1.
Next here for vlan 20, the ip address is
192.168.20.2, and the gateway is 192.168.20.1.
Next here PC 4, also vlan 20. The ip address is
192.168.20.3, and the gateway is 192.168.20.1.
Okay now we have done configuring the ip
address of all pc in the room 1.
Let’s try communicate between pc in the different vlan. But
before that let’s try from pc in the same vlan.
Okay here success. Now let’s try ping different
vlan. Okay here failed, let’s test again,
and here the result is success. So vlan 10
and vlan 20 can communicate each others.
Let’s try from vlan 10 to vlan 30. The first
packet will be failed, let’s test again,
and here also success. Now let’s try from vlan 20 to vlan
1, the first packet is failed, let’s test again,
and here the result is also success.
Okay, so now between pc in the different
vlan can communicate each others.
Next let’s configure the ip address
of pc in the room 2 and room 3.
Here vlan 10, the ip address is
192.168.10.4. the gateway is 192.168.10.1.
Next here, the ip address is
192.168.10.5, the gateway is 192.168.10.1.
Next this is vlan 1, the ip address is
192.168.1.3, the gateway is 192.168.1.1,
Next here vlan 30, the ip address is
192.168.30.3, and the gateway is 192.168.30.1
This is vlan 20, the ip address is
192.168.20.4, and the gateway is 192.168.20.1.
Next this also vlan 20. The ip address is
192.168.20.5, and the gateway is 192.168.20.1.
Okay we have done for room 2. Next let’s configure for room 3.
Here vlan 10, the ip address is
192.168.10.6 and the gateway is 192.168.10.1,
here also vlan 10, the ip address is
192.168.10.7 and the gateway is 192.168.10.1
Next here vlan 20, the ip address is
192.168.20.6 and the gateway is 192.168.20.1.
Here also vlan 20, the ip address is
192.168.20.7 and the gateway is 192.168.20.1
Okay now we have done configuring the ip
address for all pc. Next let’s test ping.
Here let’s test from vlan 20 in the room 1
to vlan 10 room 2. The first packet is failed,
let’s test again, and okay here success.
Now let’s test from vlan
30 room 1 to vlan 20 room 2.
The first packet is failed, let’s test again,
and here success. Next let’s try from vlan 1
room 2 to the vlan 10 room 3. The first packet is
failed, let’s test again. Okay here also success.
Let’s test again from vlan 30
room 2 to the vlan 20 room 3.
The first packet is failed, let’s
test again, and here also success.
Okay now all pc in the different vlan can
communicate each others. This is means our
configuration is success. I think enough
for this video, in the next video we are
going to learn about DHCP server.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video!